  GTK+ 2.0 Tutorial using Ocaml
  ------------------------------- -- ---------------------------
  [\<\<\< Previous](x2008.html)      [Next \>\>\>](x2035.html)

* * * * *

Drag-and-drop (DND)
===================

GTK+ has a high level set of functions for doing inter-process
communication via the drag-and-drop system. GTK+ can perform
drag-and-drop on top of the low level Xdnd and Motif drag-and-drop
protocols.

Overview {.SECT1}
========

An application capable of GTK+ drag-and-drop first defines and sets up
the GTK+ widget(s) for drag-and-drop. Each widget can be a source and/or
destination for drag-and-drop.

Source widgets can send out drag data, thus allowing the user to drag
things off of them, while destination widgets can receive drag data.
Drag-and-drop destinations can limit who they accept drag data from,
e.g. the same application or any application (including itself).

Sending and receiving drop data makes use of GTK+ signals. Dropping an
item to a destination widget requires both a data request (for the
source widget) and data received signal handler (for the target widget).
Additional signal handers can be connected if you want to know when a
drag begins (at the very instant it starts), to when a drop is made, and
when the entire drag-and-drop procedure has ended (successfully or not).

Your application will need to provide data for source widgets when
requested, that involves having a drag data request signal handler. For
destination widgets they will need a drop data received signal handler.

So a typical drag-and-drop cycle would look as follows:

1.  Drag begins.

2.  Drag data request (when a drop occurs).

3.  Drop data received (may be on same or different application).

4.  Drag data delete (if the drag was a move).

5.  Drag-and-drop procedure done.

There are a few minor steps that go in between here and there, but we
will get into detail about that later.

* * * * *

  ------------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------
  [\<\<\< Previous](x2008.html)   [Home](book1.html)   [Next \>\>\>](x2035.html)
  Clipboard Example                                    Properties
  ------------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------


