  GTK+ 2.0 Tutorial using Ocaml
  ------------------------------- -- ---------------------------
  [\<\<\< Previous](c2294.html)      [Next \>\>\>](c2373.html)

* * * * *

Credits
=======

We would like to thank the following for their contributions to this
text.

-   Bawer Dagdeviren, `chamele0n@geocities.com`{.LITERAL} for the menus
    tutorial.

-   Raph Levien, `raph@acm.org`{.LITERAL} for hello world ala GTK,
    widget packing, and general all around wisdom. He's also generously
    donated a home for this tutorial.

-   Peter Mattis, `petm@xcf.berkeley.edu`{.LITERAL} for the simplest GTK
    program.. and the ability to make it :)

-   Werner Koch `werner.koch@guug.de`{.LITERAL} for converting the
    original plain text to SGML, and the widget class hierarchy.

-   Mark Crichton `crichton@expert.cc.purdue.edu`{.LITERAL} for the menu
    factory code, and the table packing tutorial.

-   Owen Taylor `owt1@cornell.edu`{.LITERAL} for the EventBox widget
    section (and the patch to the distro). He's also responsible for the
    selections code and tutorial, as well as the sections on writing
    your own GTK widgets, and the example application. Thanks a lot Owen
    for all you help!

-   Mark VanderBoom `mvboom42@calvin.edu`{.LITERAL} for his wonderful
    work on the Notebook, Progress Bar, Dialogs, and File selection
    widgets. Thanks a lot Mark! You've been a great help.

-   Tim Janik `timj@gtk.org`{.LITERAL} for his great job on the Lists
    Widget. His excellent work on automatically extracting the widget
    tree and signal information from GTK. Thanks Tim :)

-   Rajat Datta `rajat@ix.netcom.com`{.LITERAL} for the excellent job on
    the Pixmap tutorial.

-   Michael K. Johnson `johnsonm@redhat.com`{.LITERAL} for info and code
    for popup menus.

-   David Huggins-Daines `bn711@freenet.carleton.ca`{.LITERAL} for the
    Range Widgets and Tree Widget sections.

-   Stefan Mars `mars@lysator.liu.se`{.LITERAL} for the CList section.

-   David A. Wheeler `dwheeler@ida.org`{.LITERAL} for portions of the
    text on GLib and various tutorial fixups and improvements. The GLib
    text was in turn based on material developed by Damon Chaplin
    `DAChaplin@msn.com`{.LITERAL}

-   David King for style checking the entire document.

And to all of you who commented on and helped refine this document.

Thanks.

Ocaml Version Credits {.SECT1}
=====================

Thanks.

* * * * *

  ------------------------------- -------------------- -------------------------------------------
  [\<\<\< Previous](c2294.html)   [Home](book1.html)   [Next \>\>\>](c2373.html)
  Contributing                                         Tutorial Copyright and Permissions Notice
  ------------------------------- -------------------- -------------------------------------------


