  GTK+ 2.0 Tutorial using Ocaml
  ------------------------------- -- ---------------------------
  [\<\<\< Previous](c2308.html)      [Next \>\>\>](a2390.html)

* * * * *

Tutorial Copyright and Permissions Notice
=========================================

The GTK Tutorial is Copyright (C) 1997 Ian Main.

Copyright (C) 1998-2002 Tony Gale.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
document under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that this
copyright notice is included exactly as in the original, and that the
entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this
document into another language, under the above conditions for modified
versions.

If you are intending to incorporate this document into a published work,
please contact the maintainer, and we will make an effort to ensure that
you have the most up to date information available.

There is no guarantee that this document lives up to its intended
purpose. This is simply provided as a free resource. As such, the
authors and maintainers of the information provided within can not make
any guarantee that the information is even accurate.

Ocaml Version Tutorial Copyright and Permissions Notice {.SECT1}
=======================================================

Copyright (C) 2004 SooHyoung Oh.

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
document under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that this
copyright notice is included exactly as in the original, and that the
entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this
document into another language, under the above conditions for modified
versions.

If you are intending to incorporate this document into a published work,
please contact the maintainer, and we will make an effort to ensure that
you have the most up to date information available.

There is no guarantee that this document lives up to its intended
purpose. This is simply provided as a free resource. As such, the
authors and maintainers of the information provided within can not make
any guarantee that the information is even accurate.

* * * * *

  ------------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------
  [\<\<\< Previous](c2308.html)   [Home](book1.html)   [Next \>\>\>](a2390.html)
  Credits                         Â                     GTK Signals
  ------------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------


