  GTK+ 2.0 Tutorial using Ocaml
  ------------------------------- -- --------------------------
  [\<\<\< Previous](c20.html)        [Next \>\>\>](c108.html)

* * * * *

Introduction
============

GTK (GIMP Toolkit) is a library for creating graphical user interfaces.
It is licensed using the LGPL license, so you can develop open software,
free software, or even commercial non-free software using GTK without
having to spend anything for licenses or royalties.

It's called the GIMP toolkit because it was originally written for
developing the GNU Image Manipulation Program (GIMP), but GTK has now
been used in a large number of software projects, including the GNU
Network Object Model Environment (GNOME) project. GTK is built on top of
GDK (GIMP Drawing Kit) which is basically a wrapper around the low-level
functions for accessing the underlying windowing functions (Xlib in the
case of the X windows system), and gdk-pixbuf, a library for client-side
image manipulation.

The primary authors of GTK are:

-   Peter Mattis [petm@xcf.berkeley.edu](mailto:petm@xcf.berkeley.edu)

-   Spencer Kimball
    [spencer@xcf.berkeley.edu](mailto:spencer@xcf.berkeley.edu)

-   Josh MacDonald
    [jmacd@xcf.berkeley.edu](mailto:jmacd@xcf.berkeley.edu)

GTK is currently maintained by:

-   Owen Taylor [otaylor@redhat.com](mailto:otaylor@redhat.com)

-   Tim Janik [timj@gtk.org](mailto:timj@gtk.org)

GTK is essentially an object oriented application programmers interface
(API). Although written completely in C, it is implemented using the
idea of classes and callback functions (pointers to functions).

There is also a third component called GLib which contains a few
replacements for some standard calls, as well as some additional
functions for handling linked lists, etc. The replacement functions are
used to increase GTK's portability, as some of the functions implemented
here are not available or are nonstandard on other Unixes such as
g\_strerror(). Some also contain enhancements to the libc versions, such
as g\_malloc() that has enhanced debugging utilities.

In version 2.0, GLib has picked up the type system which forms the
foundation for GTK's class hierarchy, the signal system which is used
throughout GTK, a thread API which abstracts the different native thread
APIs of the various platforms and a facility for loading modules.

As the last component, GTK uses the Pango library for internationalized
text output.

The [original
tutorial](https://developer.gnome.org/gtk-tutorial/stable/) describes
the C interface to GTK. There are GTK bindings for many other languages
including Ocaml, C++, Guile, Perl, Python, TOM, Ada95, Objective C, Free
Pascal, Eiffel, Java and C\#. If you intend to use another language's
bindings to GTK, look at that binding's documentation first. In some
cases that documentation may describe some important conventions (which
you should know first) and then refer you back to the original tutorial.
There are also some cross-platform APIs (such as wxWindows and V) which
use GTK as one of their target platforms; again, consult their
documentation first.

If you're developing your GTK application in C++, a few extra notes are
in order. There's a C++ binding to GTK called GTK--, which provides a
more C++-like interface to GTK; you should probably look into this
instead. If you don't like that approach for whatever reason, there are
two alternatives for using GTK. First, you can use only the C subset of
C++ when interfacing with GTK and then use the C interface as described
in the original tutorial. Second, you can use GTK and C++ together by
declaring all callbacks as static functions in C++ classes, and again
calling GTK using its C interface. If you choose this last approach, you
can include as the callback's data value a pointer to the object to be
manipulated (the so-called "this" value). Selecting between these
options is simply a matter of preference, since in all three approaches
you get C++ and GTK. None of these approaches requires the use of a
specialized preprocessor, so no matter what you choose you can use
standard C++ with GTK.

The original tutorial is an attempt to document as much as possible of
GTK, but it is by no means complete. The tutorial assumes a good
understanding of C, and how to create C programs. It would be a great
benefit for the reader to have previous X programming experience, but it
shouldn't be necessary. If you are learning GTK as your first widget
set, please comment on how you found this tutorial, and what you had
trouble with. There are also Ocaml, C++, Objective C, ADA, Guile and
other language bindings available, but I don't follow these.

The original document is a "work in progress". Please look for updates
on [http://www.gtk.org/](http://www.gtk.org/).

I would very much like to hear of any problems you have learning GTK
from the original document, and would appreciate input as to how it may
be improved. Please see the section on [Contributing](c2294.html) for
further information.

GTK+ 2.0 in Ocaml {.SECT1}
=================

[`Ocaml`{.LITERAL}](http://caml.inria.fr/) is a fantastic programming
language which has the various modern features. Some of them are:

-   Functional / Imperative features: It is a functional language, since
    the basic units of programs are functions. And it provides full
    imperative capabilities, including updatable arrays, imperative
    variables and records with mutable fields.

-   Strongly-typed: It is a strongly-typed language; it means that the
    objects that you use belong to a set that has a name, called its
    type. In Caml, types are managed by the computer, the user has
    nothing to do about types (types are synthesized). And caml features
    \`\`polymorphic typing'': some types may be left unspecified,
    standing for \`\`any type''.

-   Compiler / Interpreter: Caml provides an interpreter as well as
    compiler. An interactive top-level executes \`\`read-eval-print''
    loop, that is convenient for both learning, or rapid testing and
    debugging of programs.

-   Object oriented: Objective Caml features objects that give a fully
    fledged object oriented programming style in Caml programs.

[`LablGTK`{.LITERAL}](http://lablgtk.forge.ocamlcore.org/) is an
Objective Caml interface to gtk+. It comes in two flavors: LablGTK1 for
gtk+-1.2 and LablGTK2 for gtk+-2.0 to gtk+-2.4.

It is still under development, but already fully functional. All widgets
(but one) are available, with almost all their methods. The GLArea
widget is also supported in combination with LablGL. LibGlade and
GdkPixbuf support is also included for both versions. LablGTK2 adds
support for gnomecanvas, librsvg and libpanel Many examples are
provided.

You can use LablGTK in win32 systems as well as in the unix like system.

![Note](./stylesheet-images/note.gif)

Some chapters of the original document have been omitted in ocaml
version:

-   GLib
-   Tips For Writing GTK Applications

The chapters or sections with "(?)" at the end of the name is not
translated part to ocaml language. It is waiting contributors.

The following chapters have only titles while the corresponding one in
the C version tutorial has large contents:

-   Writing Your Own Widgets
-   GTK Signals

So, you have to read the
[`original`{.LITERAL}](https://developer.gnome.org/gtk-tutorial/stable/)
document to refer these chapters.

![Note](./stylesheet-images/note.gif)

There are good example sources in lablgtk distribution and I borrowed
some code from that.

![Note](./stylesheet-images/note.gif)

Some part of this document came from LablGTK README files.

* * * * *

  ----------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------
  [\<\<\< Previous](c20.html)   [Home](book1.html)   [Next \>\>\>](c108.html)
  Tutorial Availability         Â                     Getting Started
  ----------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------


