  GTK+ 2.0 Tutorial using Ocaml
  ------------------------------- -- --------------------------
  [\<\<\< Previous](x371.html)       [Next \>\>\>](x400.html)

* * * * *

Packing Widgets
===============

When creating an application, you'll want to put more than one widget
inside a window. Our first *helloworld* example only used one widget so
we could simply use a \#add (or \#pack) method call to "pack" the widget
into the window. But when you want to put more than one widget into a
window, how do you control where that widget is positioned? This is
where packing comes in.

Theory of Packing Boxes {.SECT1}
=======================

Most packing is done by creating boxes. These are invisible widget
containers that we can pack our widgets into which come in two forms, a
horizontal box, and a vertical box. When packing widgets into a
horizontal box, the objects are inserted horizontally from left to right
or right to left depending on the call used. In a vertical box, widgets
are packed from top to bottom or vice versa. You may use any combination
of boxes inside or beside other boxes to create the desired effect.

To create a new horizontal box, we use a call to
[`GPack.hbox ()`{.LITERAL}](http://lablgtk.forge.ocamlcore.org/refdoc/GPack.html#VALhbox),
and for vertical boxes,
[`GPack.vbox ()`{.LITERAL}](http://lablgtk.forge.ocamlcore.org/refdoc/GPack.html#VALvbox).
The
[`box#pack`{.LITERAL}](http://lablgtk.forge.ocamlcore.org/refdoc/GPack.box_skel.html#METHODpack)
or
[`box#add`{.LITERAL}](http://lablgtk.forge.ocamlcore.org/refdoc/GContainer.container-c.html#METHODadd)
method is used to place objects inside of these containers. An object
may be another container or a widget. In fact, many widgets are actually
containers themselves, including the button, but we usually only use a
label inside a button.

By using this method, GTK knows where you want to place your widgets so
it can do automatic resizing and other nifty things. There are also a
number of options as to how your widgets should be packed. As you can
imagine, this method gives us a quite a bit of flexibility when placing
and creating widgets.

* * * * *

  ------------------------------ -------------------- --------------------------
  [\<\<\< Previous](x371.html)   [Home](book1.html)   [Next \>\>\>](x400.html)
  An Upgraded Hello World                             Details of Boxes
  ------------------------------ -------------------- --------------------------


