  GTK+ 2.0 Tutorial using Ocaml
  ------------------------------- -- --------------------------
  [\<\<\< Previous](x743.html)       [Next \>\>\>](x792.html)

* * * * *

Adjustments
===========

GTK has various widgets that can be visually adjusted by the user using
the mouse or the keyboard, such as the range widgets, described in the
[Range Widgets](c834.html) section. There are also a few widgets that
display some adjustable portion of a larger area of data, such as the
text widget and the viewport widget.

Obviously, an application needs to be able to react to changes the user
makes in range widgets. One way to do this would be to have each widget
emit its own type of signal when its adjustment changes, and either pass
the new value to the signal handler, or require it to look inside the
widget's data structure in order to ascertain the value. But you may
also want to connect the adjustments of several widgets together, so
that adjusting one adjusts the others. The most obvious example of this
is connecting a scrollbar to a panning viewport or a scrolling text
area. If each widget has its own way of setting or getting the
adjustment value, then the programmer may have to write their own signal
handlers to translate between the output of one widget's signal and the
"input" of another's adjustment setting function.

GTK solves this problem using the Adjustment object, which is not a
widget but a way for widgets to store and pass adjustment information in
an abstract and flexible form. The most obvious use of Adjustment is to
store the configuration parameters and values of range widgets, such as
scrollbars and scale controls. However, since Adjustments are derived
from Object, they have some special powers beyond those of normal data
structures. Most importantly, they can emit signals, just like widgets,
and these signals can be used not only to allow your program to react to
user input on adjustable widgets, but also to propagate adjustment
values transparently between adjustable widgets.

You will see how adjustments fit in when you see the other widgets that
incorporate them: [Progress Bars](x1039.html), [Viewports](x1577.html),
[Scrolled Windows](x1595.html), and others.

Creating an Adjustment {.SECT1}
======================

Many of the widgets which use adjustment objects do so automatically,
but some cases will be shown in later examples where you may need to
create one yourself. You create an adjustment using
[`GData.adjustment`{.LITERAL}](http://lablgtk.forge.ocamlcore.org/refdoc/GData.html#VALadjustment):

~~~~ {.PROGRAMLISTING}
val GData.adjustment :
    ?value:float ->
    ?lower:float ->
    ?upper:float ->
    ?step_incr:float ->
    ?page_incr:float ->
    ?page_size:float -> unit -> adjustment

lower : default value is 0.
upper : default value is 100.
step_incr : default value is 1.
page_incr : default value is 10.
page_size : default value is 10.
~~~~

The `value`{.LITERAL} argument is the initial value you want to give to
the adjustment, usually corresponding to the topmost or leftmost
position of an adjustable widget. The `lower`{.LITERAL} argument
specifies the lowest value which the adjustment can hold. The
`step_increment`{.LITERAL} argument specifies the "smaller" of the two
increments by which the user can change the value, while the
`page_increment`{.LITERAL} is the "larger" one. The
`page_size`{.LITERAL} argument usually corresponds somehow to the
visible area of a panning widget. The `upper`{.LITERAL} argument is used
to represent the bottom most or right most coordinate in a panning
widget's child. Therefore it is *not* always the largest number that
`value`{.LITERAL} can take, since the `page_size`{.LITERAL} of such
widgets is usually non-zero.

* * * * *

  ------------------------------ -------------------- --------------------------------
  [\<\<\< Previous](x743.html)   [Home](book1.html)   [Next \>\>\>](x792.html)
  Radio Buttons                                       Using Adjustments the Easy Way
  ------------------------------ -------------------- --------------------------------


