  GTK+ 2.0 Tutorial using Ocaml
  ------------------------------- -- --------------------------
  [\<\<\< Previous](x807.html)       [Next \>\>\>](x852.html)

* * * * *

Range Widgets
=============

The category of range widgets includes the ubiquitous scrollbar widget
and the less common scale widget. Though these two types of widgets are
generally used for different purposes, they are quite similar in
function and implementation. All range widgets share a set of common
graphic elements, each of which has its own X window and receives
events. They all contain a "trough" and a "slider" (what is sometimes
called a "thumbwheel" in other GUI environments). Dragging the slider
with the pointer moves it back and forth within the trough, while
clicking in the trough advances the slider towards the location of the
click, either completely, or by a designated amount, depending on which
mouse button is used.

As mentioned in [Adjustments](c766.html) above, all range widgets are
associated with an adjustment object, from which they calculate the
length of the slider and its position within the trough. When the user
manipulates the slider, the range widget will change the value of the
adjustment.

Scrollbar Widgets {.SECT1}
=================

These are your standard, run-of-the-mill scrollbars. These should be
used only for scrolling some other widget, such as a list, a text box,
or a viewport (and it's generally easier to use the scrolled window
widget in most cases). For other purposes, you should use scale widgets,
as they are friendlier and more featureful.

There are separate types for horizontal and vertical scrollbars. There
really isn't much to say about these. You create them with the
[`GRange.scrollbar`{.LITERAL}](http://lablgtk.forge.ocamlcore.org/refdoc/GRange.html#VALscrollbar)
function:

~~~~ {.PROGRAMLISTING}
val GRange.scrollbar :
    Gtk.Tags.orientation ->
    ?adjustment:GData.adjustment ->
    ?inverted:bool ->
    ?update_policy:Gtk.Tags.update_type ->
    ?packing:(GObj.widget -> unit) ->
    ?show:bool -> unit -> range

inverted : default value is false
update_policy : default value is `CONTINUOUS
~~~~

and that's about it.

The `` `HORIZONTAL ``{.LITERAL} or `` `VERTICAL ``{.LITERAL} should be
given as an argument to specify the orientataion of the scrollbar.

The `adjustment`{.LITERAL} argument may not be given, in which case one
will be created for you. Not specifying might actually be useful in this
case, if you wish to pass the newly-created adjustment to the
constructor function of some other widget which will configure it for
you, such as a text widget.

* * * * *

  ------------------------------ -------------------- --------------------------
  [\<\<\< Previous](x807.html)   [Home](book1.html)   [Next \>\>\>](x852.html)
  Adjustment Internals                                Scale Widgets
  ------------------------------ -------------------- --------------------------


