  GTK+ 2.0 Tutorial using Ocaml
  ------------------------------- ----------------------- ---------------------------
  [\<\<\< Previous](x1183.html)   Miscellaneous Widgets   [Next \>\>\>](x1307.html)

* * * * *

Combo Box {.SECT1}
=========

The combo box is another fairly simple widget that is really just a
collection of other widgets. From the user's point of view, the widget
consists of a text entry box and a pull down menu from which the user
can select one of a set of predefined entries. Alternatively, the user
can type a different option directly into the text box.

The following extract child widgets from a Combo Box:

~~~~ {.PROGRAMLISTING}
method entry : entry
method list : GList.liste
~~~~

As you can see, the Combo Box has two principal parts that you really
care about: an entry and a list.

First off, to create a combo box, use
[`GEdit.combo`{.LITERAL}](http://lablgtk.forge.ocamlcore.org/refdoc/GEdit.html#VALcombo):

~~~~ {.PROGRAMLISTING}
val GEdit.combo :
    ?popdown_strings:string list ->
    ?allow_empty:bool ->
    ?case_sensitive:bool ->
    ?enable_arrow_keys:bool ->
    ?value_in_list:bool ->
    ?border_width:int ->
    ?width:int ->
    ?height:int ->
    ?packing:(GObj.widget -> unit) ->
    ?show:bool -> unit -> combo
~~~~

Now, if you want to set the string in the entry section of the combo
box, this is done by manipulating the `entry`{.LITERAL} widget directly:

~~~~ {.PROGRAMLISTING}
combo#entry#set_text "My String";
~~~~

To set the values in the popdown list, one uses the function:

~~~~ {.PROGRAMLISTING}
method set_popdown_strings : string list -> unit
~~~~

At this point you have a working combo box that has been set up. There
are a few aspects of its behavior that you can change. These are
accomplished with the functions:

~~~~ {.PROGRAMLISTING}
method set_enable_arrow_keys : bool -> unit
method set_case_sensitive : bool -> unit
~~~~

set\_enable\_arrow\_keys method lets the user change the value in the
entry using the up/down arrow keys. This doesn't bring up the list, but
rather replaces the current text in the entry with the next list entry
(up or down, as your key choice indicates). It does this by searching in
the list for the item corresponding to the current value in the entry
and selecting the previous/next item accordingly. Usually in an entry
the arrow keys are used to change focus (you can do that anyway using
TAB). Note that when the current item is the last of the list and you
press arrow-down it changes the focus (the same applies with the first
item and arrow-up).

If the current value in the entry is not in the list, then the function
of set\_enable\_arrow\_keys is disabled.

set\_case\_sensitive method toggles whether or not GTK searches for
entries in a case sensitive manner. This is used when the Combo widget
is asked to find a value from the list using the current entry in the
text box. This completion can be performed in either a case sensitive or
insensitive manner, depending upon the use of this function. The Combo
widget can also simply complete the current entry if the user presses
the key combination MOD-1 and "Tab". MOD-1 is often mapped to the "Alt"
key, by the `xmodmap`{.LITERAL} utility. Note, however that some window
managers also use this key combination, which will override its use
within GTK.

Now that we have a combo box, tailored to look and act how we want it,
all that remains is being able to get data from the combo box. This is
relatively straightforward. The majority of the time, all you are going
to care about getting data from is the entry. The entry is accessed
simply by `combo#entry`{.LITERAL}. The two principal things that you are
going to want to do with it are connect to the activate signal, which
indicates that the user has pressed the Return or Enter key, and read
the text. The first is accomplished using something like:

~~~~ {.PROGRAMLISTING}
combo#entry#connect#activate ~callback:my_callback;
~~~~

Getting the text at any arbitrary time is accomplished by simply using
the entry function such as:

~~~~ {.PROGRAMLISTING}
let text = combo#entry#text in
...
~~~~

That's about all there is to it. There is a function

~~~~ {.PROGRAMLISTING}
method disable_activate : unit -> unit
~~~~

that will disable the activate signal on the entry widget in the combo
box. Personally, I can't think of why you'd want to use it, but it does
exist.

* * * * *

  ------------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------
  [\<\<\< Previous](x1183.html)   [Home](book1.html)   [Next \>\>\>](x1307.html)
  Spin Buttons                    [Up](c953.html)      Calendar
  ------------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------


