  GTK+ 2.0 Tutorial using Ocaml
  ------------------------------- ----------------- --------------------------
  [\<\<\< Previous](x141.html)    Getting Started   [Next \>\>\>](x181.html)

* * * * *

Theory of Signals and Callbacks {.SECT1}
===============================

Before we look in detail at `helloworld`{.LITERAL}, we'll discuss
signals and callbacks. GTK is an event driven toolkit, which means it
will sleep in
[`GMain.Main.main`{.LITERAL}](http://lablgtk.forge.ocamlcore.org/refdoc/GMain.Main.html#VALmain)
until an event occurs and control is passed to the appropriate function.

This passing of control is done using the idea of "signals". (Note that
these signals are not the same as the Unix system signals, and are not
implemented using them, although the terminology is almost identical.)
When an event occurs, such as the press of a mouse button, the
appropriate signal will be "emitted" by the widget that was pressed.
This is how GTK does most of its useful work. There are signals that all
widgets inherit, such as "destroy", and there are signals that are
widget specific, such as "toggled" on a toggle button.

To make a button perform an action, we set up a signal handler to catch
these signals and call the appropriate function. This is done by using a
function such as:

~~~~ {.PROGRAMLISTING}
widget#connect#signal_name ~callback:(unit -> unit) -> GtkSignal.id
~~~~

where the `widget`{.LITERAL} is the one which will be emitting the
signal, and the `signal_name`{.LITERAL} is the name of the signal you
wish to catch. The `callback`{.LITERAL} is the function you wish to be
called when it is caught.

* * * * *

  ------------------------------ -------------------- --------------------------
  [\<\<\< Previous](x141.html)   [Home](book1.html)   [Next \>\>\>](x181.html)
  Compiling Hello World          [Up](c108.html)      Events
  ------------------------------ -------------------- --------------------------


