  GTK+ 2.0 Tutorial using Ocaml
  ------------------------------- ----------------- --------------------------
  [\<\<\< Previous](x166.html)    Getting Started   [Next \>\>\>](x286.html)

* * * * *

Events {.SECT1}
======

In addition to the signal mechanism described above, there is a set of
`events`{.LITERAL} that reflect the Window event mechanism. Callbacks
may also be attached to these events. These events are: (see
[`event_signals`{.LITERAL}](http://lablgtk.forge.ocamlcore.org/refdoc/GObj.event_signals-c.html))

-   any
-   button\_press
-   button\_release
-   scroll
-   motion\_notify
-   delete
-   destroy
-   expose
-   key\_press
-   key\_release
-   enter\_notify
-   leave\_notify
-   configure
-   focus\_in
-   focus\_out
-   map
-   unmap
-   property\_notify
-   selection\_clear
-   selection\_request
-   selection\_notify
-   proximity\_in
-   proximity\_out
-   visibility\_notify
-   client
-   no\_expose
-   window\_state

In order to connect a callback function to one of these events you use
the `#event#connect`{.LITERAL} method, using one of the above event
names as the `event_signal_name`{.LITERAL} like this:

~~~~ {.PROGRAMLISTING}
widget#event#connect#event_signal_name ~callback:(event -> bool) -> GtkSignal.id
~~~~

The callback function for events has a slightly different form than that
for signals as you can see.

The argument of the callback function `event`{.LITERAL} may have various
type which will depend upon which of the above events has occurred. The
components of the event structure will depend upon the type of the
event. The possible types of event are: (see
[`event_signals`{.LITERAL}](http://lablgtk.forge.ocamlcore.org/refdoc/GObj.event_signals.html))

~~~~ {.PROGRAMLISTING}
  Gtk.Tags.event_type Gdk.event
  [`DELETE] Gdk.event
  [`DESTROY] Gdk.event
  [`MAP] Gdk.event
  [`UNMAP] Gdk.event
  GdkEvent.Button.t
  GdkEvent.Crossing.t
  GdkEvent.Configure.t
  GdkEvent.Expose.t
  GdkEvent.Focus.t
  GdkEvent.Key.t
  GdkEvent.Motion.t
  GdkEvent.Proximity.t
  GdkEvent.Selection.t
  ...
~~~~

So, to connect a callback function to one of these events we would use
something like:

~~~~ {.PROGRAMLISTING}
button#event#connect#button_press ~callback:button_pressed;
~~~~

This assumes that `button`{.LITERAL} is a Button widget. Now, when the
mouse is over the button and a mouse button is pressed, the function
`button_pressed`{.LITERAL} will be called. This function may be declared
as:

~~~~ {.PROGRAMLISTING}
button_pressed (ev:GdkEvent.Button.t) =
 ...
 true (* or false *)
~~~~

Note that the argument has a type `GdkEvent.Button.t`{.LITERAL} as we
know what type of event will occur for this function to be called.

The value returned from this function indicates whether the event should
be propagated further by the GTK event handling mechanism. Returning
`true`{.LITERAL} indicates that the event has been handled, and that it
should not propagate further. Returning `false`{.LITERAL} continues the
normal event handling. See the section on [Advanced Event and Signal
Handling](c1957.html) for more details on this propagation process.

For details on the GdkEvent data types, see the appendix entitled [GDK
Event Types](a2575.html).

The GDK selection and drag-and-drop APIs also emit a number of events
which are reflected in GTK by the signals. See [Signals on the source
widget](x2047.html#SEC-SIGNALSONSOURCEWIDGETS) and [Signals on the
destination widget](x2047.html#SEC-SIGNALSONDESTWIDGETS) for details on
the signatures of the callback functions for these signals:

-   \#drag\#connect\#beginning
-   \#drag\#connect\#ending
-   \#drag\#connect\#data\_delete
-   \#drag\#connect\#motion
-   \#drag\#connect\#drop
-   \#drag\#connect\#data\_get
-   \#drag\#connect\#data\_received

* * * * *

  --------------------------------- -------------------- ------------------------------
  [\<\<\< Previous](x166.html)      [Home](book1.html)   [Next \>\>\>](x286.html)
  Theory of Signals and Callbacks   [Up](c108.html)      Stepping Through Hello World
  --------------------------------- -------------------- ------------------------------


