  GTK+ 2.0 Tutorial using Ocaml
  ------------------------------- ------------------------------------ ---------------------------
  [\<\<\< Previous](c1957.html)   Advanced Event and Signal Handling   [Next \>\>\>](c1991.html)

* * * * *

Signal Emission and Propagation {.SECT1}
===============================

Signal emission is the process whereby GTK runs all handlers for a
specific object and signal.

First, note that the return value from a signal emission is the return
value of the *last* handler executed. Since event signals are all of
type `GTK_RUN_LAST`{.LITERAL}, this will be the default (GTK supplied)
handler, unless you connect with event\#connect\#after.

The way an event (say "button\_press event") is handled, is:

-   Start with the widget where the event occured.

-   Emit the generic "event" signal. If that signal handler returns a
    value of TRUE, stop all processing.

-   Otherwise, emit a specific, "button\_press event" signal. If that
    returns TRUE, stop all processing.

-   Otherwise, go to the widget's parent, and repeat the above two
    steps.

-   Continue until some signal handler returns TRUE, or until the
    top-level widget is reached.

Some consequences of the above are:

-   Your handler's return value will have no effect if there is a
    default handler, unless you connect with \#event\#connect\#after.

-   To prevent the default handler from being run, you need to connect
    with \#event\#connect and use GtkSignal.emit\_stop\_by\_name - the
    return value only affects whether the signal is propagated, not the
    current emission.

* * * * *

  ------------------------------------ -------------------- ---------------------------
  [\<\<\< Previous](c1957.html)        [Home](book1.html)   [Next \>\>\>](c1991.html)
  Advanced Event and Signal Handling   [Up](c1957.html)     Clipboard
  ------------------------------------ -------------------- ---------------------------


