  GTK+ 2.0 Tutorial using Ocaml
  ------------------------------- ---------------- ---------------------------
  [\<\<\< Previous](c2131.html)   GTK's rc Files   [Next \>\>\>](x2193.html)

* * * * *

GTK's rc File Format {.SECT1}
====================

The format of the GTK file is illustrated in the example below. This is
the testgtkrc file from the GTK distribution, but I've added a few
comments and things. You may wish to include this explanation in your
application to allow the user to fine tune his application.

There are several directives to change the attributes of a widget.

-   fg - Sets the foreground color of a widget.

-   bg - Sets the background color of a widget.

-   bg\_pixmap - Sets the background of a widget to a tiled pixmap.

-   font - Sets the font to be used with the given widget.

In addition to this, there are several states a widget can be in, and
you can set different colors, pixmaps and fonts for each state. These
states are:

-   NORMAL - The normal state of a widget, without the mouse over top of
    it, and not being pressed, etc.

-   PRELIGHT - When the mouse is over top of the widget, colors defined
    using this state will be in effect.

-   ACTIVE - When the widget is pressed or clicked it will be active,
    and the attributes assigned by this tag will be in effect.

-   INSENSITIVE - When a widget is set insensitive, and cannot be
    activated, it will take these attributes.

-   SELECTED - When an object is selected, it takes these attributes.

When using the "fg" and "bg" keywords to set the colors of widgets, the
format is:

~~~~ {.PROGRAMLISTING}
fg[<STATE>] = { Red, Green, Blue }
~~~~

Where STATE is one of the above states (PRELIGHT, ACTIVE, etc), and the
Red, Green and Blue are values in the range of 0 - 1.0, { 1.0, 1.0, 1.0
} being white. They must be in float form, or they will register as 0,
so a straight "1" will not work, it must be "1.0". A straight "0" is
fine because it doesn't matter if it's not recognized. Unrecognized
values are set to 0.

bg\_pixmap is very similar to the above, except the colors are replaced
by a filename.

pixmap\_path is a list of paths separated by ":"'s. These paths will be
searched for any pixmap you specify.

The font directive is simply:

~~~~ {.PROGRAMLISTING}
font = "<font name>"
~~~~

The only hard part is figuring out the font string. Using xfontsel or a
similar utility should help.

The "widget\_class" sets the style of a class of widgets. These classes
are listed in the widget overview on the class hierarchy.

The "widget" directive sets a specifically named set of widgets to a
given style, overriding any style set for the given widget class. These
widgets are registered inside the application using the misc\#set\_name
call. This allows you to specify the attributes of a widget on a per
widget basis, rather than setting the attributes of an entire widget
class. I urge you to document any of these special widgets so users may
customize them.

When the keyword `parent`{.LITERAL} is used as an attribute, the widget
will take on the attributes of its parent in the application.

When defining a style, you may assign the attributes of a previously
defined style to this new one.

~~~~ {.PROGRAMLISTING}
style "main_button" = "button"
{
  font = "-adobe-helvetica-medium-r-normal--*-100-*-*-*-*-*-*"
  bg[PRELIGHT] = { 0.75, 0, 0 }
}
~~~~

This example takes the "button" style, and creates a new "main\_button"
style simply by changing the font and prelight background color of the
"button" style.

Of course, many of these attributes don't apply to all widgets. It's a
simple matter of common sense really. Anything that could apply, should.

* * * * *

  ------------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------
  [\<\<\< Previous](c2131.html)   [Home](book1.html)   [Next \>\>\>](x2193.html)
  GTK's rc Files                  [Up](c2131.html)     Example rc file
  ------------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------------


