  GTK+ 2.0 Tutorial using Ocaml
  ------------------------------- ------------------ --------------------------
  [\<\<\< Previous](c655.html)    Creating Widgets   [Next \>\>\>](c669.html)

* * * * *

Memory Management {.SECT1}
=================

Important efforts have been dedicated to cooperate with Gtk's reference
counting mechanism. As a result you should generally be able to use
Gdk/Gtk data structures without caring about memory management. They
will be freed when nobody points to them any more. This also means that
you do not need to pay too much attention to whether a data structure is
still alive or not. If it is not, you should get an error rather than a
core dump. The case of Gtk objects deserves special care. Since they are
interactive, we cannot just destroy them when they are no longer
referenced. They have to be explicitely destroyed. If a widget was added
to a container widget, it will automatically be destroyed when its last
container is destroyed. For this reason you need only destroy toplevel
widgets.

IMPORTANT: Some Gtk data structures are allocated in the Caml heap, and
there use in signals (Gtk functions internally cally callbacks) relies
on their address being stable during a function call. For this reason
automatic compaction is disabled in GtkMain. If you need it, you may use
compaction through Gc.compact where it is safe (timeouts, other
threads...), but do not enable automatic compaction.

* * * * *

  ------------------------------ -------------------- --------------------------
  [\<\<\< Previous](c655.html)   [Home](book1.html)   [Next \>\>\>](c669.html)
  Creating Widgets               [Up](c655.html)      The Button Widget
  ------------------------------ -------------------- --------------------------


