  GTK+ 2.0 Tutorial using Ocaml
  ------------------------------- ------------------- --------------------------
  [\<\<\< Previous](c669.html)    The Button Widget   [Next \>\>\>](x733.html)

* * * * *

Toggle Buttons {.SECT1}
==============

Toggle buttons are derived from normal buttons and are very similar,
except they will always be in one of two states, alternated by a click.
They may be depressed, and when you click again, they will pop back up.
Click again, and they will pop back down.

Toggle buttons are the basis for check buttons and radio buttons, as
such, many of the calls used for toggle buttons are inherited by radio
and check buttons. I will point these out when we come to them.

Creating a new toggle button; see
[`GButton.toggle_button`{.LITERAL}](http://lablgtk.forge.ocamlcore.org/refdoc/GButton.html#VALtoggle_button):

~~~~ {.PROGRAMLISTING}
val GButton.toggle_button :
    ?label:string ->
    ?use_mnemonic:bool ->
    ?stock:GtkStock.id ->
    ?relief:Gtk.Tags.relief_style ->
    ?active:bool ->
    ?draw_indicator:bool ->
    ?packing:(GObj.widget -> unit) ->
    ?show:bool -> unit -> toggle_button
~~~~

As you can imagine, these work identically to the normal button widget
calls. You can create a blank toggle button, and with
`~lablel`{.LITERAL} or `~use_mnemonic`{.LITERAL}, a button with a label
widget already packed into it. The `use_mnemonic`{.LITERAL} variant
additionally parses the label for '\_'-prefixed mnemonic characters.

To retrieve the state of the toggle widget, including radio and check
buttons, we use a construct as shown in our example below. This tests
the state of the toggle button, by calling the `active`{.LITERAL} method
of the toggle widget's structure. The signal of interest to us emitted
by toggle buttons (the toggle button, check button, and radio button
widgets) is the "toggled" signal. To check the state of these buttons,
set up a signal handler to catch the toggled signal, and get its state.
The callback will look something like:

~~~~ {.PROGRAMLISTING}
method toggled : callback:(unit -> unit) -> GtkSignal.id
~~~~

To force the state of a toggle button, and its children, the radio and
check buttons, use this method:

~~~~ {.PROGRAMLISTING}
method set_active : bool -> unit
~~~~

The above call can be used to set the state of the toggle button, and
its children the radio and check buttons. Passing a `true`{.LITERAL} or
`false`{.LITERAL} as the argument to specify whether it should be down
(depressed) or up (released). Default is up, or `false`{.LITERAL}.

Note that when you use the `set_active`{.LITERAL} method, and the state
is actually changed, it causes the "clicked" and "toggled" signals to be
emitted from the button.

~~~~ {.PROGRAMLISTING}
method active : bool
~~~~

This returns the current state of the toggle button.

* * * * *

  ------------------------------ -------------------- --------------------------
  [\<\<\< Previous](c669.html)   [Home](book1.html)   [Next \>\>\>](x733.html)
  The Button Widget              [Up](c669.html)      Check Buttons
  ------------------------------ -------------------- --------------------------


