  GTK+ 2.0 Tutorial using Ocaml
  ------------------------------- ------------- --------------------------
  [\<\<\< Previous](x792.html)    Adjustments   [Next \>\>\>](c834.html)

* * * * *

Adjustment Internals {.SECT1}
====================

Ok, you say, that's nice, but what if I want to create my own handlers
to respond when the user adjusts a range widget or a spin button, and
how do I get at the value of the adjustment in these handlers?

You can use the following accessor to inspect the `value`{.LITERAL} of
an adjustment:

~~~~ {.PROGRAMLISTING}
method value : float
~~~~

Since, when you set the `value`{.LITERAL} of an Adjustment, you
generally want the change to be reflected by every widget that uses this
adjustment, GTK provides this convenience function to do this:

~~~~ {.PROGRAMLISTING}
method set_value : float -> unit
~~~~

As mentioned earlier, Adjustment is a subclass of Object just like all
the various widgets, and thus it is able to emit signals. This is, of
course, why updates happen automagically when you share an adjustment
object between a scrollbar and another adjustable widget; all adjustable
widgets connect signal handlers to their adjustment's
`value_changed`{.LITERAL} signal, as can your program. Here's the
definition of this signal:

~~~~ {.PROGRAMLISTING}
method value_changed : callback:(unit -> unit) -> GtkSignal.id
~~~~

The various widgets that use the Adjustment object will emit this signal
on an adjustment whenever they change its value. This happens both when
user input causes the slider to move on a range widget, as well as when
the program explicitly changes the value with set\_value method. So, for
example, if you have a scale widget, and you want to change the rotation
of a picture whenever its value changes, you would create a callback
like this:

~~~~ {.PROGRAMLISTING}
let cb_rotate_picture adj picture () =
  picture#set_rotation adj#value;
  ...
~~~~

and connect it to the scale widget's adjustment like this:

~~~~ {.PROGRAMLISTING}
adj#connect#value_changed ~callback:(cb_rotate_picture adj picture);
~~~~

What about when a widget needs to reconfigure the `upper`{.LITERAL} or
`lower`{.LITERAL} fields of its adjustment, such as when a user adds
more text to a text widget? In this case, you can use

~~~~ {.PROGRAMLISTING}
method set_bounds :
    ?lower:float ->
    ?upper:float ->
    ?step_incr:float ->
    ?page_incr:float ->
    ?page_size:float -> unit -> unit
~~~~

When an adjustment is reconfigured, it emits the `changed`{.LITERAL}
signal, which looks like this:

~~~~ {.PROGRAMLISTING}
method changed : callback:(unit -> unit) -> GtkSignal.id
~~~~

Range widgets typically connect a handler to this signal, which changes
their appearance to reflect the change - for example, the size of the
slider in a scrollbar will grow or shrink in inverse proportion to the
difference between the `lower`{.LITERAL} and `upper`{.LITERAL} values of
its adjustment.

Now go forth and adjust!

* * * * *

  -------------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------
  [\<\<\< Previous](x792.html)     [Home](book1.html)   [Next \>\>\>](c834.html)
  Using Adjustments the Easy Way   [Up](c766.html)      Range Widgets
  -------------------------------- -------------------- --------------------------


