  GTK+ 2.0 Tutorial using Ocaml
  ------------------------------- --------------- --------------------------
  [\<\<\< Previous](c834.html)    Range Widgets   [Next \>\>\>](x888.html)

* * * * *

Scale Widgets {.SECT1}
=============

Scale widgets are used to allow the user to visually select and
manipulate a value within a specific range. You might want to use a
scale widget, for example, to adjust the magnification level on a zoomed
preview of a picture, or to control the brightness of a color, or to
specify the number of minutes of inactivity before a screensaver takes
over the screen.

Creating a Scale Widget {.SECT2}
-----------------------

As with scrollbars, there is a widget type for horizontal and vertical
scale widgets. (Most programmers seem to favour horizontal scale
widgets.) The following function
[`GRange.scale`{.LITERAL}](http://lablgtk.forge.ocamlcore.org/refdoc/GRange.html#VALscale)
creates vertical or horizontal scale widgets according to the
argument;`` `VERTICAL ``{.LITERAL} or `` `HORIZONTAL ``{.LITERAL}:

~~~~ {.PROGRAMLISTING}
val GRange.scale :
    Gtk.Tags.orientation ->
    ?adjustment:GData.adjustment ->
    ?digits:int ->
    ?draw_value:bool ->
    ?value_pos:Gtk.Tags.position ->
    ?inverted:bool ->
    ?update_policy:Gtk.Tags.update_type ->
    ?packing:(GObj.widget -> unit) ->
    ?show:bool -> unit -> scale

digits : default value is 1
draw_value : default value is false
value_pos : default value is `LEFT
inverted : default value is false
update_policy : default value is `CONTINUOUS
~~~~

The `adjustment`{.LITERAL} argument may be given which has already been
created with
[`GData.adjustment`{.LITERAL}](http://lablgtk.forge.ocamlcore.org/refdoc/GData.html#VALadjustment),
or may not, in which case, an anonymous Adjustment is created with all
of its values set to `0.0`{.LITERAL} (which isn't very useful in this
case). In order to avoid confusing yourself, you probably want to create
your adjustment with a `page_size`{.LITERAL} of `0.0`{.LITERAL} so that
its `upper`{.LITERAL} value actually corresponds to the highest value
the user can select. (If you're *already* thoroughly confused, read the
section on [Adjustments](c766.html) again for an explanation of what
exactly adjustments do and how to create and manipulate them.)

Functions and Signals (well, functions, at least) {.SECT2}
-------------------------------------------------

Scale widgets can display their current value as a number beside the
trough. The default behaviour is to show the value, but you can change
this with this function:

~~~~ {.PROGRAMLISTING}
method set_draw_value : bool -> unit
~~~~

The value displayed by a scale widget is rounded to one decimal point by
default, as is the `value`{.LITERAL} field in its Adjustment. You can
change this with:

~~~~ {.PROGRAMLISTING}
method set_digits : int -> unit
~~~~

where `digits`{.LITERAL} is the number of decimal places you want. You
can set `digits`{.LITERAL} to anything you like, but no more than 13
decimal places will actually be drawn on screen.

Finally, the value can be drawn in different positions relative to the
trough:

~~~~ {.PROGRAMLISTING}
method set_value_pos : Gtk.Tags.position -> unit
~~~~

The argument can take one of the following values:

~~~~ {.PROGRAMLISTING}
  `LEFT
  `RIGHT
  `TOP
  `BOTTOM
~~~~

If you position the value on the "side" of the trough (e.g., on the top
or bottom of a horizontal scale widget), then it will follow the slider
up and down the trough.

* * * * *

  ------------------------------ -------------------- --------------------------
  [\<\<\< Previous](c834.html)   [Home](book1.html)   [Next \>\>\>](x888.html)
  Range Widgets                  [Up](c834.html)      Common Range Functions
  ------------------------------ -------------------- --------------------------


