  GTK+ 2.0 Tutorial using Ocaml
  ------------------------------- --------------- --------------------------
  [\<\<\< Previous](x852.html)    Range Widgets   [Next \>\>\>](x926.html)

* * * * *

Common Range Functions {.SECT1}
======================

The Range widget class is fairly complicated internally, but, like all
the "base class" widgets, most of its complexity is only interesting if
you want to hack on it. Also, almost all of the functions and signals it
defines are only really used in writing derived widgets. There are,
however, a few useful functions that will work on all range widgets.

Setting the Update Policy {.SECT2}
-------------------------

The "update policy" of a range widget defines at what points during user
interaction it will change the `value`{.LITERAL} field of its Adjustment
and emit the "value\_changed" signal on this Adjustment. The update
policies, defined as type
[`Gtk.Tags.update_type`{.LITERAL}](http://lablgtk.forge.ocamlcore.org/refdoc/Gtk.Tags.html#TYPEupdate_type),
are:

`` `CONTINUOUS ``{.LITERAL}
:   This is the default. The "value\_changed" signal is emitted
    continuously, i.e., whenever the slider is moved by even the tiniest
    amount.

`` `DISCONTINUOUS ``{.LITERAL}
:   The "value\_changed" signal is only emitted once the slider has
    stopped moving and the user has released the mouse button.

`` `DELAYED ``{.LITERAL}
:   The "value\_changed" signal is emitted when the user releases the
    mouse button, or if the slider stops moving for a short period of
    time.

The update policy of a range widget can be set by calling this function:

~~~~ {.PROGRAMLISTING}
method set_update_policy : Gtk.Tags.update_type -> unit
~~~~

Getting and Setting Adjustments {.SECT2}
-------------------------------

Getting and setting the adjustment for a range widget "on the fly" is
done, predictably, with:

~~~~ {.PROGRAMLISTING}
method adjustment : GData.adjustment
method set_adjustment : GData.adjustment -> unit
~~~~

`adjustment`{.LITERAL} method returns the adjustment to which
`range`{.LITERAL} is connected.

`set_adjustment`{.LITERAL} method does absolutely nothing if you pass it
the adjustment that `range`{.LITERAL} is already using, regardless of
whether you changed any of its fields or not. If you pass it a new
Adjustment, it will disconnect the old one if it exists, connect the
appropriate signals to the new one, and call the private function
`gtk_range_adjustment_changed()`{.LITERAL}, which will (or at least, is
supposed to...) recalculate the size and/or position of the slider and
redraw if necessary.

* * * * *

  ------------------------------ -------------------- --------------------------
  [\<\<\< Previous](x852.html)   [Home](book1.html)   [Next \>\>\>](x926.html)
  Scale Widgets                  [Up](c834.html)      Key and Mouse bindings
  ------------------------------ -------------------- --------------------------


