  GTK+ 2.0 Tutorial using Ocaml
  ------------------------------- --------------- --------------------------
  [\<\<\< Previous](x888.html)    Range Widgets   [Next \>\>\>](x944.html)

* * * * *

Key and Mouse bindings {.SECT1}
======================

All of the GTK range widgets react to mouse clicks in more or less the
same way. Clicking button-1 in the trough will cause its adjustment's
`page_increment`{.LITERAL} to be added or subtracted from its
`value`{.LITERAL}, and the slider to be moved accordingly. Clicking
mouse button-2 in the trough will jump the slider to the point at which
the button was clicked. Clicking button-3 in the trough of a range or
any button on a scrollbar's arrows will cause its adjustment's value to
change by `step_increment`{.LITERAL} at a time.

Scrollbars are not focusable, thus have no key bindings. The key
bindings for the other range widgets (which are, of course, only active
when the widget has focus) are do *not* differentiate between horizontal
and vertical range widgets.

All range widgets can be operated with the left, right, up and down
arrow keys, as well as with the `Page Up`{.LITERAL} and
`Page Down`{.LITERAL} keys. The arrows move the slider up and down by
`step_increment`{.LITERAL}, while `Page Up`{.LITERAL} and
`Page Down`{.LITERAL} move it by `page_increment`{.LITERAL}.

The user can also move the slider all the way to one end or the other of
the trough using the keyboard. This is done with the `Home`{.LITERAL}
and `End`{.LITERAL} keys.

* * * * *

  ------------------------------ -------------------- --------------------------
  [\<\<\< Previous](x888.html)   [Home](book1.html)   [Next \>\>\>](x944.html)
  Common Range Functions         [Up](c834.html)      Example
  ------------------------------ -------------------- --------------------------


